The knee acts like a hinge
and a shock absorber when you
walk, run, jump, kick, or climb.
Ligaments, tendons, and muscles
give the knee stability
and hold it together.
Rubbery tissue called cartilage
covers and cushions the ends of
the bones that make up the knee.
These bones include the femur, or thighbone,
the tibia, or shinbone,
and the patella, or knee cap.
Osteoarthritis of the knee
means the cartilage in the joint
has broken down
because of excessive wear
due to obesity, injuries, or overuse.
It is also called degenerative arthritis
and degenerative joint disease, or DJD.
When knee cartilage is rough,
frayed or worn away,
the bones can grind against each other,
which can make the knee joint
irritated, painful, and swollen.